sphinxdoc/basenodes.rst, before:

Base Node Classes
=================

This section describes the base classes for all node classes that libavg provides. 

.. automodule:: libavg.avg
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Node
        :parts: 1

    To be rendered, a :py:class:`Node` must be part of a scene graph. Scene graphs are 
    trees of :py:class:`Node` objects associated with a :py:class:`Canvas`. A
    :py:class:`CanvasNode` is at the root of each scene graph. Scene graphs are pure tree
    structures, so each :py:class:`Node` only has one parent node. Nodes that are not 
    linked to a canvas are not rendered. Any media that these nodes need are loaded from 
    disk, however.

    libavg :py:class:`Node` classes make heavy use of inheritance. Concepts like 
    :py:attr:`id`, :py:attr:`position` and :py:attr:`opacity` are defined in base classes
    and can be used in any of the subclasses. 
    
    .. note::

        To reduce redundancy in the reference,
        inherited methods and attributes are not mentioned in the derived class 
        documentation - follow the link to the base class to access them. This also 
        applies to constructor parameters: When constructing an object of a derived class,
        constructor parameters of the base classes are also accepted.
        
    There are several ways of constructing a
    node. The reference documentation follows the python constructor syntax. The
    parameters remain the same in all syntactic variations, however. The options for 
    construction are as follows:

        **Use the standard python constructor**:
            Nodes can be created using a standard python constructor. As an example::

                node = ImageNode(id="background", href="sunset.png", pos=(0,0), 
                        parent=rootNode)

            Parameters to a node constructor are always named parameters. Nodes never have
            positional constructor parameters.

        **Use** :py:meth:`Player.createNode`:
            There are two ways to create a node using createNode::

                node = player.createNode("image", 
                        {"id":"background", "href":"sunset.png", "pos":(0,0), 
                         "parent":rootNode})

            and::

                node = player.createNode(
                        """<image id="background" href="sunset.png" 
                                      pos="(0,0)"/>""")

            Using the second option, complete trees of nodes can be constructed in one
            statement.

        **Load it from an avg file**:
            Complete scene graphs for onscreen display can be loaded from disk using 
            :py:meth:`Player.loadFile`::

                root = player.loadFile("scene.avg")

        **Create a complete scene graph using inline xml**:
            :py:meth:`Player.loadString` allows using an avg-formatted xml string to 
            create a scene graph of nodes::

                root = player.loadString("""
                        <avg size="(800,600)">
                            <image id="background" href="sunset.png" 
                                      pos="(0,0)"/>
                        </avg>
                    """)

        The methods :py:meth:`Player.loadFile` and :py:meth:`Player.loadString` create 
        onscreen scene graphs. :py:meth:`Player.loadCanvasFile` and 
        :py:meth:`Player.loadCanvasString` are the equivalent methods for offscreen 
        canvases.

    .. autoclass:: Node([id: string="", parent: DivNode=None, active=True, sensitive=True, opacity=1.0])

        Base class for everything that can be put into an avg tree.

        .. py:attribute:: id

            A unique identifier that can be used to reference the node, for instance using
            :py:meth:`Player.getElementByID`. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: parent

            A :py:class:`DivNode` that the node will become a child of. When used as a
            constructor parameter, this is equivalent to calling 
            :py:meth:`DivNode.appendChild` directly after construction. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: active

            If this attribute is true, the node behaves as usual. If not, it
            is neither drawn nor does it react to events.

        .. py:attribute:: opacity

            A measure of the node's transparency. 0.0 is completely
            transparent, 1.0 is completely opaque. Opacity is relative to
            the parent node's opacity.

        .. py:attribute:: sensitive

            A node only reacts to events if sensitive is true.

        .. py:method:: connectEventHandler(type, source, pyobj, pyfunc)

            Sets a callback function that is invoked whenever an event of the
            specified type from the specified source occurs. Unlike 
            :py:meth:`setEventHandler`, this method allows several handlers for one 
            type/source-combination. To remove a handler installed using 
            :py:meth:`connectEventHandler`, call :py:meth:`disconnectEventHandler`.

            :param type:
            
                One of the event types :py:const:`KEYUP`, :py:const:`KEYDOWN`, 
                :py:const:`CURSORMOTION`, :py:const:`CURSORUP`, :py:const:`CURSORDOWN`, 
                :py:const:`CURSOROVER`, :py:const:`CURSOROUT`, :py:const:`RESIZE` or 
                :py:const:`QUIT`.

            :param source:

                :py:const:`MOUSE` for mouse events, :py:const:`TOUCH` for multitouch touch
                events, :py:const:`TRACK` for multitouch track events or other tracking,
                :py:const:`NONE` for keyboard events. Sources can be or'ed together to 
                set a handler for several sources at once.

            :param pyobj:

                The python object that hosts the callback. This parameter is only needed
                so that :py:meth:`disconnectEventHandler` can be called to remove all
                handlers hosted by one object in one call.

            :param pyfunc:

                The python callable to invoke. This callable must take the event to 
                process as a parameter. In contrast to callbacks set up using 
                :py:meth:`setEventHandler`, it should not return anything. If 
                :py:meth:`connectEventHandler` is used, all events bubble up the tree.
                pyfunc may not be :py:const:`None`.

        .. py:method:: disconnectEventHandler(pyobj, [pyfunc])

            Removes one or more event handlers from the node's table of event handlers.
            If several event handlers conform to the parameters given, all are removed.
            It is an error if no matching event handler exists.

            :param pyobj:

                The python object that hosts the event handler.

            :param pyfunc:

                The python callable that should not be called anymore. If pyfunc is
                absent, all callbacks hosted by :py:attr:`pyobj` are removed.

        .. py:method:: getAbsPos(relpos) -> Point2D

            Transforms a position in coordinates relative to the node to a
            position in window coordinates.

        .. py:method:: getElementByPos(pos) -> Node

            Returns the topmost child node that is at the position given. :py:attr:`pos`
            is in coordinates relative to the called node. The algorithm used
            is the same as the cursor hit test algorithm used for events.

        .. py:method:: getParent() -> Node

            .. deprecated:: 1.8
                Use :attr:`parent` instead.

            Returns the container (:py:class:`AVGNode` or :py:class:`DivNode`) the node
            is in. For the root node (or if the node is not connected), returns 
            :py:const:`None`.

        .. py:method:: getRelPos(abspos) -> Point2D

            Transforms a position in window coordinates to a position
            in coordinates relative to the node.

        .. py:method:: registerInstance(self, parent)

            Needs to be called when deriving from a Node class in python in the derived
            classes :py:func:`__init__` method.

        .. py:method:: releaseEventCapture([cursorid])

            Restores normal cursor event handling after a call to 
            :py:func:`setEventCapture()`. :py:attr:`cursorid` is the id of the
            cursor to release. If :py:attr:`cursorid` is not given, the mouse cursor is
            used.

        .. py:method:: setEventCapture([cursorid])

            Sets up event capturing so that cursor events are sent to this node
            regardless of the cursor position. cursorid is optional; if left out,
            the mouse cursor is captured. If not, events from a specific tracker
            cursor are captured. The event propagates to the capturing node's
            parent normally. This function is useful for the
            implementation of user interface elements such as scroll bars. Only one
            node can capture a cursor at any one time. Normal operation can
            be restored by calling :py:func:`releaseEventCapture()`.
        
        .. py:method:: setEventHandler(type, source, pyfunc)

            .. deprecated:: 1.7
                Use :func:`connectEventHandler()` instead.

            Sets a callback function that is invoked whenever an event of the
            specified type from the specified source occurs. This method removes all 
            other event handlers from this type/source-combination. 

            :param type:
            
                One of the event types :py:const:`KEYUP`, :py:const:`KEYDOWN`, 
                :py:const:`CURSORMOTION`, :py:const:`CURSORUP`, :py:const:`CURSORDOWN`, 
                :py:const:`CURSOROVER`, :py:const:`CURSOROUT`, :py:const:`RESIZE` or 
                :py:const:`QUIT`.

            :param source:

                :py:const:`MOUSE` for mouse events, :py:const:`TOUCH` for multitouch
                touch events, :py:const:`TRACK` for multitouch track events or other 
                tracking, :py:const:`NONE` for keyboard events. Sources can be or'ed 
                together to set a handler for several sources at once.

            :param pyfunc:

                The python callable to invoke. This callable must take the event to 
                process as a parameter. If pyfunc returns :py:const:`None` or 
                :py:const:`False`, the event bubbles up the node tree. If it is 
                :py:const:`True`, bubbling is suppressed.

                If pyfunc is :py:const:`None`, the previous handler is removed.

        .. py:method:: unlink([kill=False])

            Removes a node from it's parent container and optionally deletes all resources
            the node holds. In the default case, :py:func:`unlink` is equivalent to
            :samp:`node.getParent().removeChild(node.getParent().indexOf(node))`, 
            except that if the node has no parent, unlink does nothing. Also in the 
            default case, textures are moved back to the CPU and event handlers are 
            preserved.

            If :samp:`kill=True`, textures are not moved back. Event handlers for events
            routed to this node are reset, all textures are deleted and the href is reset
            to empty in this case, saving some time and making sure there are no 
            references to the node left on the libavg side. :py:attr:`kill` should always
            be set to :py:const:`True` if the node will not be used after the unlink.

Commit message:

Reintegrated uilib branch into trunk.
git-svn-id: https://www.libavg.de/svn/trunk/libavg@7654 44470bb9-56e9-0310-a0f8-c586564d3dc6

sphinxdoc/basenodes.rst, after:

Base Node Classes
=================

This section describes the base classes for all node classes that libavg provides. 

.. automodule:: libavg.avg
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Node
        :parts: 1

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Style
        :parts: 1

    To be rendered, a :py:class:`Node` must be part of a scene graph. Scene graphs are 
    trees of :py:class:`Node` objects associated with a :py:class:`Canvas`. A
    :py:class:`CanvasNode` is at the root of each scene graph. Scene graphs are pure tree
    structures, so each :py:class:`Node` only has one parent node. Nodes that are not 
    linked to a canvas are not rendered. Any media that these nodes need are loaded from 
    disk, however.

    libavg :py:class:`Node` classes make heavy use of inheritance. Concepts like 
    :py:attr:`id`, :py:attr:`position` and :py:attr:`opacity` are defined in base classes
    and can be used in any of the subclasses. 
    
    .. note::

        To reduce redundancy in the reference,
        inherited methods and attributes are not mentioned in the derived class 
        documentation - follow the link to the base class to access them. This also 
        applies to constructor parameters: When constructing an object of a derived class,
        constructor parameters of the base classes are also accepted.
        
    There are several ways of constructing a
    node. The reference documentation follows the python constructor syntax. The
    parameters remain the same in all syntactic variations, however. The options for 
    construction are as follows:

        **Use the standard python constructor**:
            Nodes can be created using a standard python constructor. As an example::

                node = ImageNode(id="background", href="sunset.png", pos=(0,0), 
                        parent=rootNode)

            Parameters to a node constructor are always named parameters. Nodes never have
            positional constructor parameters.

        **Use** :py:meth:`Player.createNode`:
            There are two ways to create a node using createNode::

                node = player.createNode("image", 
                        {"id":"background", "href":"sunset.png", "pos":(0,0), 
                         "parent":rootNode})

            and::

                node = player.createNode(
                        """<image id="background" href="sunset.png" 
                                      pos="(0,0)"/>""")

            Using the second option, complete trees of nodes can be constructed in one
            statement.

        **Load it from an avg file**:
            Complete scene graphs for onscreen display can be loaded from disk using 
            :py:meth:`Player.loadFile`::

                root = player.loadFile("scene.avg")

        **Create a complete scene graph using inline xml**:
            :py:meth:`Player.loadString` allows using an avg-formatted xml string to 
            create a scene graph of nodes::

                root = player.loadString("""
                        <avg size="(800,600)">
                            <image id="background" href="sunset.png" 
                                      pos="(0,0)"/>
                        </avg>
                    """)

        The methods :py:meth:`Player.loadFile` and :py:meth:`Player.loadString` create 
        onscreen scene graphs. :py:meth:`Player.loadCanvasFile` and 
        :py:meth:`Player.loadCanvasString` are the equivalent methods for offscreen 
        canvases.

    .. autoclass:: Node([id: string="", parent: DivNode=None, active=True, sensitive=True, opacity=1.0, style=None])

        Base class for everything that can be put into an avg tree.

        .. py:attribute:: id

            A unique identifier that can be used to reference the node, for instance using
            :py:meth:`Player.getElementByID`. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: parent

            A :py:class:`DivNode` that the node will become a child of. When used as a
            constructor parameter, this is equivalent to calling 
            :py:meth:`DivNode.appendChild` directly after construction. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: active

            If this attribute is true, the node behaves as usual. If not, it
            is neither drawn nor does it react to events.

        .. py:attribute:: opacity

            A measure of the node's transparency. 0.0 is completely
            transparent, 1.0 is completely opaque. Opacity is relative to
            the parent node's opacity.

        .. py:attribute:: sensitive

            A node only reacts to events if sensitive is true.

        .. py:attribute:: style

            A :py:class:`Style` object that contains default values for the node's
            attributes.

        .. py:method:: connectEventHandler(type, source, pyobj, pyfunc)

            Sets a callback function that is invoked whenever an event of the
            specified type from the specified source occurs. Unlike 
            :py:meth:`setEventHandler`, this method allows several handlers for one 
            type/source-combination. To remove a handler installed using 
            :py:meth:`connectEventHandler`, call :py:meth:`disconnectEventHandler`.

            :param type:
            
                One of the event types :py:const:`KEYUP`, :py:const:`KEYDOWN`, 
                :py:const:`CURSORMOTION`, :py:const:`CURSORUP`, :py:const:`CURSORDOWN`, 
                :py:const:`CURSOROVER`, :py:const:`CURSOROUT`, :py:const:`RESIZE` or 
                :py:const:`QUIT`.

            :param source:

                :py:const:`MOUSE` for mouse events, :py:const:`TOUCH` for multitouch touch
                events, :py:const:`TRACK` for multitouch track events or other tracking,
                :py:const:`NONE` for keyboard events. Sources can be or'ed together to 
                set a handler for several sources at once.

            :param pyobj:

                The python object that hosts the callback. This parameter is only needed
                so that :py:meth:`disconnectEventHandler` can be called to remove all
                handlers hosted by one object in one call.

            :param pyfunc:

                The python callable to invoke. This callable must take the event to 
                process as a parameter. In contrast to callbacks set up using 
                :py:meth:`setEventHandler`, it should not return anything. If 
                :py:meth:`connectEventHandler` is used, all events bubble up the tree.
                pyfunc may not be :py:const:`None`.

        .. py:method:: disconnectEventHandler(pyobj, [pyfunc])

            Removes one or more event handlers from the node's table of event handlers.
            If several event handlers conform to the parameters given, all are removed.
            It is an error if no matching event handler exists.

            :param pyobj:

                The python object that hosts the event handler.

            :param pyfunc:

                The python callable that should not be called anymore. If pyfunc is
                absent, all callbacks hosted by :py:attr:`pyobj` are removed.

        .. py:method:: getAbsPos(relpos) -> Point2D

            Transforms a position in coordinates relative to the node to a
            position in window coordinates.

        .. py:method:: getElementByPos(pos) -> Node

            Returns the topmost child node that is at the position given. :py:attr:`pos`
            is in coordinates relative to the called node. The algorithm used
            is the same as the cursor hit test algorithm used for events.

        .. py:method:: getParent() -> Node

            .. deprecated:: 1.8
                Use :attr:`parent` instead.

            Returns the container (:py:class:`AVGNode` or :py:class:`DivNode`) the node
            is in. For the root node (or if the node is not connected), returns 
            :py:const:`None`.

        .. py:method:: getRelPos(abspos) -> Point2D

            Transforms a position in window coordinates to a position
            in coordinates relative to the node.

        .. py:method:: registerInstance(self, parent)

            Needs to be called when deriving from a Node class in python in the derived
            classes :py:func:`__init__` method.

        .. py:method:: releaseEventCapture([cursorid])

            Restores normal cursor event handling after a call to 
            :py:func:`setEventCapture()`. :py:attr:`cursorid` is the id of the
            cursor to release. If :py:attr:`cursorid` is not given, the mouse cursor is
            used.

        .. py:method:: setEventCapture([cursorid])

            Sets up event capturing so that cursor events are sent to this node
            regardless of the cursor position. cursorid is optional; if left out,
            the mouse cursor is captured. If not, events from a specific tracker
            cursor are captured. The event propagates to the capturing node's
            parent normally. This function is useful for the
            implementation of user interface elements such as scroll bars. Only one
            node can capture a cursor at any one time. Normal operation can
            be restored by calling :py:func:`releaseEventCapture()`.
        
        .. py:method:: setEventHandler(type, source, pyfunc)

            .. deprecated:: 1.7
                Use :func:`connectEventHandler()` instead.

            Sets a callback function that is invoked whenever an event of the
            specified type from the specified source occurs. This method removes all 
            other event handlers from this type/source-combination. 

            :param type:
            
                One of the event types :py:const:`KEYUP`, :py:const:`KEYDOWN`, 
                :py:const:`CURSORMOTION`, :py:const:`CURSORUP`, :py:const:`CURSORDOWN`, 
                :py:const:`CURSOROVER`, :py:const:`CURSOROUT`, :py:const:`RESIZE` or 
                :py:const:`QUIT`.

            :param source:

                :py:const:`MOUSE` for mouse events, :py:const:`TOUCH` for multitouch
                touch events, :py:const:`TRACK` for multitouch track events or other 
                tracking, :py:const:`NONE` for keyboard events. Sources can be or'ed 
                together to set a handler for several sources at once.

            :param pyfunc:

                The python callable to invoke. This callable must take the event to 
                process as a parameter. If pyfunc returns :py:const:`None` or 
                :py:const:`False`, the event bubbles up the node tree. If it is 
                :py:const:`True`, bubbling is suppressed.

                If pyfunc is :py:const:`None`, the previous handler is removed.

        .. py:method:: unlink([kill=False])

            Removes a node from it's parent container and optionally deletes all resources
            the node holds. In the default case, :py:func:`unlink` is equivalent to
            :samp:`node.getParent().removeChild(node.getParent().indexOf(node))`, 
            except that if the node has no parent, unlink does nothing. Also in the 
            default case, textures are moved back to the CPU and event handlers are 
            preserved.

            If :samp:`kill=True`, textures are not moved back. Event handlers for events
            routed to this node are reset, all textures are deleted and the href is reset
            to empty in this case, saving some time and making sure there are no 
            references to the node left on the libavg side. :py:attr:`kill` should always
            be set to :py:const:`True` if the node will not be used after the unlink.
            
.. autoclass:: Style([basestyle=None], attrs, ...)

            :py:class:`Style` objects are the libavg equivalent of html styles. They 
            are constructed with any number of node attributes. When a node is constructed
            using a style as a parameter, the style's attributes are used as defaults for
            the node attributes. Once constructed, the attributes of the :py:class:`Style`
            object can be accessed like a read-only dict.
            
            :param basestyle:

                If this constructor parameter is given, the new style is constructed as
                derived style. The attributes of :py:attr:`basestyle` are used as default
                values for the style being constructed.
