sphinxdoc/events.rst, before:

Input Handling
==============

.. automodule:: libavg.avg
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Event CursorEvent MouseEvent TouchEvent KeyEvent
        :parts: 1

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Contact
        :parts: 1

    .. inheritance-diagram:: InputDevice
        :parts: 1

    .. autoclass:: Contact

        A Contact encapsulates the information of one touch on an input device from
        the down event to an up event. It exposes some aggregate information about the
        touch - distance and direction travelled etc. - and supports event handlers that
        are only called for this single contact.

        For compatibility reasons, a mouse device also produces contacts. A mouse contact
        exists from the press of a button to its release. If multiple buttons are
        pressed without a complete release (e.g. LEFTDOWN-RIGHTDOWN-LEFTUP-RIGHTUP), the
        mouse contact exists for the complete sequence. 

        .. py:attribute:: id

            A numerical id for this contact. This corresponds to the 
            :py:attr:`CursorEvent.cursorid` field. Contacts for touch events have unique
            ids, while contacts for mouse events always have the :py:attr:`id`
            :py:const:`-1`. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: age

            Time that has passed since the down event in milliseconds. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: distancefromstart

            Distance of the current position from the initial position in pixels. 
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: motionangle

            Angle of the current position from the initial position in radians. Like all
            angles in libavg, :py:attr:`motionangle` is 0 on the positive x axis and 
            increases clockwise. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: motionvec

            The difference of the current position and the initial position as a
            :py:class:`Point2D`. Read-only.


        .. py:attribute:: distancetravelled

            The total distance travelled since the initial down event. Read-only.

        .. py:method:: connectListener(motionCallback, upCallback) -> id

            Registers event handlers that get called when CURSORMOTION and CURSORUP 
            events for this :py:class:`Contact` occur. Event handlers can be unregistered
            using :py:meth:`disconnectListener`. They are automatically unregistered
            after the up event. The :py:attr:`id` returned is unique for this contact.

        .. py:method:: disconnectListener(id)

            Unregisters an event handler. The parameter is the :py:attr:`id` returned in 
            :py:meth:`connectListener`. It is an error to call 
            :py:meth:`disconnectListener` with an invalid id.

    .. autoclass:: CursorEvent

        Base class for all events which contain a position in the global coordinate
        system.
    
        .. py:attribute:: contact

            The :py:class:`Contact` that the event belongs to, if there is one. 
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: cursorid

            An numerical identifier for the current cursor.

        .. py:attribute:: node

            The :py:class:`Node` that the event occured in. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

            Position in the global coordinate system. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: source

            The type of the device that emitted the event. See :py:attr:`Event.source`. 
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: x

            x position in the global coordinate system. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: y

            y position in the global coordinate system. Read-only.


    .. autoclass:: Event(type, source, [when])

        Base class for user input events.

        :param type type:

            The type of the event. See :py:attr:`Event.type`.

        :param source source:

            The source of the event. See :py:attr:`Event.source`.

        :param Integer when:

            The time the event occured

        .. py:attribute:: inputdevice
            
            The address of the device that emitted the event.
            Read-only

        .. py:attribute:: inputdevicename

            The name of the device that emitted the event.
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: source

            One of :py:const:`MOUSE`, :py:const:`TOUCH`, :py:const:`TRACK`,
            :py:const:`CUSTOM` or :py:const:`NONE`. Read-only

        .. py:attribute:: type

            One of :py:const:`KEYUP`, :py:const:`KEYDOWN`, :py:const:`CURSORMOTION`,
            :py:const:`CURSORUP`, :py:const:`CURSORDOWN`, :py:const:`CURSOROVER`, 
            :py:const:`CURSOROUT` or :py:const:`QUIT`. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: when

            The time when the event occured in milliseconds since program start. 
            Read-only.

    .. autoclass:: InputDevice(name, [eventReceiverNode])

        Base class for input devices which feed events to the system. Derived classes can
        be either user-defined or one of the predefined libavg input devices. User-defined
        InputDevice objects are registered with the system by calling 
        :py:meth:`Player.addInputDevice`. After this, the emitted 
        events are processed like any other events.

        :param String name:

            The name of the input device.

        :param DivNode eventReceiverNode:
            
            The root node that the input device will deliver events to. By default, this
            is the libavg root node. Useful for constricting events to a part of the
            total canvas or for sending events directly to an offscreen canvas. Event
            bubbling starts at this node and proceeds down the tree from there.

        .. py:attribute:: eventreceivernode:

            The node the events of this input device will be delivered to. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: name

            The name of the device. Read-only.
        
        .. py:method::  start()

            Initializes the input device if needed. By default this is an empty method.
        
        .. py:method:: pollEvents() -> list

            Abstract method which returns a list of pending events. After registering 
            the input device, this method gets called on every frame.

    .. autoclass:: KeyEvent

        Generated when a key is pressed or released.

        .. py:attribute:: keycode

            The keycode of the key according to US keyboard layout. Read-only. 

        .. py:attribute:: keystring

            A character or word describing the key pressed. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: modifiers

            Any modifier keys (:kbd:`shift`, :kbd:`ctrl`, etc.) pressed. This is a 
            number of KeyModifier values or'ed together. Read-only. 

        .. py:attribute:: scancode

            The untranslated (hardware-dependent) scancode of the key pressed. 
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: unicode

            Unicode index of the character. Takes into account the current keyboard
            layout and any modifiers pressed. This attribute is only filled in the
            :py:const:`KEYDOWN` event. Read-only.

    .. autoclass:: MouseEvent(type, leftButtonState, middleButtonState, rightButtonState, pos, button, [speed, when])

        Generated when a mouse-related event occurs.

        :param type:
    
            See :py:attr:`Event.type`

        :param Boolean leftButtonState:
    
            Specifies if the left mouse button is pressed                    

        :param Boolean middleButtonState:

            Specifies if the middle mouse button is pressed

        :param Boolean rightButtonState:

            Specifies if the right mouse button is pressed

        :param Point2D pos:
            
            The position of the event

        :param Integer button:

            The Button that caused the event

        :param Point2D speed:

            The speed of the event

        .. py:attribute:: button

            The button that caused the event. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: cursorid

            Always :samp:`-1` for mouse events, but can be used to handle mouse and 
            tracking events in one handler. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: leftbuttonstate

            :py:const:`True` if the left mouse button is currently pressed. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: middlebuttonstate

            :py:const:`True` if the middle mouse button is currently pressed. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: rightbuttonstate

            :py:const:`True` if the right mouse button is currently pressed. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: source

            Always :py:const:`MOUSE`. Read-only

        .. py:attribute:: speed

            Current speed of the mouse in pixels per millisecond as a
            :py:class:`Point2D`. Read-only.

    .. autoclass:: TouchEvent(id, type, pos, source, [speed])

        Generated when a touch or other tracking event occurs. Touch events happen 
        only when a multi-touch sensitive surface or other camera tracker is 
        active. 

        :param Integer id:
            
            The cursorid of the event

        :param type type:

            See :py:attr:`Event.type`

        :param Point2D pos:

            The position of the event

        :param source source:

            See :py:attr:`Event.source`

        :param Point2D speed:

            The speed of the event


        .. py:attribute:: area

            Size of the blob found in pixels. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: center

            Position as :py:class:`Point2D`, with sub-pixel accuracy. Used for 
            calibration. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: cursorid

            An identifier for the current touch. A single touch will generate a down,
            zero or more motion and a single up event in its lifetime, all with the same
            :py:attr:`cursorid`.

        .. py:attribute:: eccentricity

        .. py:attribute:: handorientation

            The angle of the hand relative to the finger. :py:attr:`handorientation` is
            only defined for events with :py:attr:`source`=:py:const:`TOUCH`. If the 
            tracker has detected a hovering hand attached to the finger, this is the 
            actual hand-finger angle. If no hand was detected, the angle is approximated 
            using the position of the touch on the surface. :py:attr:`handorientation`
            ranges from :py:const:`-pi` to :py:const:`pi`, with 0 being the positive x
            axis. Angles increase in a clockwise fashion.

            For :py:const:`CURSORUP` events, the angle is always approximated.

        .. py:attribute:: majoraxis

            Major axis of an ellipse that is similar to the blob. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: minoraxis

            Minor axis of an ellipse that is similar to the blob. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: orientation

            Angle of the blob in radians. For hovering hands, this is roughly the 
            direction of the hand, modulo 180 degrees. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: source

            :py:attr:`source` can be either :py:const:`TRACK` or :py:const:`TOUCH`.
            In most cases, actual touches will generate :py:const:`TOUCH` events. When 
            used with a DI device, the internal tracker also generates :py:const:`TRACK` 
            events for hands above the surface. When used with an FTIR device, the 
            internal tracker generates :py:const:`TRACK` events for the actual touches.
            Read-only

        .. py:attribute:: speed

            Current speed of the touch in pixels per millisecond as a
            :py:class:`Point2D`. Read-only.

        .. py:method:: getContour() -> list

            Returns the contour of the blob as a list of points if supported by the 
            tracker being used.

        .. py:method:: getRelatedEvents() -> events

            Only for DI devices and the internal tracker: Returns a python tuple 
            containing the events 'related' to this one. For :py:const:`TOUCH` events 
            (fingers), the tuple contains one element: the corresponding 
            :py:const:`TRACK` event (hand). For :py:const:`TRACK` events,
            the tuple contains all :py:const:`TOUCH` events that belong to the same hand.

    .. autoclass:: Tracker

        A class that uses a camera to track moving objects and delivers the movements 
        as avg events. Create a tracker by using :py:meth:`Player.addTracker()`.
        The properties of this class are explained under
        https://www.libavg.de/wiki/ProgrammersGuide/Tracker.

        This is the internal libavg tracker. For touch input sources created using 
        :py:meth:`Player.enableMultitouch`, no Tracker object exists.
        
        .. py:method:: abortCalibration()

            Aborts coordinate calibration session and restores the previous
            coordinate transformer.

        .. py:method:: endCalibration()

            Ends coordinate calibration session and activates the coordinate
            transformer generated.

        .. py:method:: getDisplayROIPos()

        .. py:method:: getDisplayROISize()

        .. py:method:: getImage(imageid) -> Bitmap 

            Returns one of the intermediate images necessary for tracking.
            These images are only available if setDebugImages was called before
            with appropriate parameters. Possible :py:attr:`imageid` values are 
            :py:const:`IMG_CAMERA`, :py:const:`IMG_DISTORTED`, :py:const:`IMG_NOHISTORY`,
            :py:const:`IMG_HISTOGRAM`, :py:const:`IMG_FINGERS` or 
            :py:const:`IMG_HIGHPASS`.

        .. py:method:: getParam(element) -> value

            Returns a tracker configuration parameter.

        .. py:method:: resetHistory()

            Throws away the current history image and generates a new one from
            the next second of images.

        .. py:method:: saveConfig()

            Saves the current tracker configuration to the default config file.

        .. py:method:: setDebugImages(img, finger)

            Controls whether debug images of intermediate tracking results
            and detected finger positions are generated and exported to
            python. Generating the debug images takes a moderate amount of
            time, so it is turned off by default.

            :param img: Whether to generate intermediate result images.
            :param finger: Whether to generate the :py:const:IMG_FINGERS: result image.

        .. py:method:: setParam(element, value)

            Sets one of the tracker configuration parameters.

        .. py:method:: startCalibration(displayextents) -> TrackerCalibrator

            Starts coordinate calibration session. The returned 
            :py:class:`TrackerCalibrator` exists until :py:meth:`endCalibration`
            or :py:meth:`abortCalibration` is called.

            :param displayextents: The width and height of the display area.

    .. autoclass:: TrackerCalibrator

        Generates a mapping of display points to camera points using a set of reference
        points. Python code should display reference points that the user must
        touch to establish a mapping. Created by :py:meth:`Tracker.startCalibration`.

        .. py:method:: getDisplayPoint() -> Point2D

        .. py:method:: nextPoint() -> bool

            Advances to the next point. Returns :py:const:`False` and ends calibration if
            all points have been set.

        .. py:method:: setCamPoint(pos)

Commit message:

Documented contact.events.
git-svn-id: https://www.libavg.de/svn/trunk/libavg@6517 44470bb9-56e9-0310-a0f8-c586564d3dc6

sphinxdoc/events.rst, after:

Input Handling
==============

.. automodule:: libavg.avg
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Event CursorEvent MouseEvent TouchEvent KeyEvent
        :parts: 1

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Contact
        :parts: 1

    .. inheritance-diagram:: InputDevice
        :parts: 1

    .. autoclass:: Contact

        A Contact encapsulates the information of one touch on an input device from
        the down event to an up event. It exposes some aggregate information about the
        touch - distance and direction travelled etc. - and supports event handlers that
        are only called for this single contact.

        For compatibility reasons, a mouse device also produces contacts. A mouse contact
        exists from the press of a button to its release. If multiple buttons are
        pressed without a complete release (e.g. LEFTDOWN-RIGHTDOWN-LEFTUP-RIGHTUP), the
        mouse contact exists for the complete sequence. 

        .. py:attribute:: age

            Time that has passed since the down event in milliseconds. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: distancefromstart

            Distance of the current position from the initial position in pixels. 
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: distancetravelled

            The total distance travelled since the initial down event. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: events

            An array containing all events that this contact has generated in the past.
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: id

            A numerical id for this contact. This corresponds to the 
            :py:attr:`CursorEvent.cursorid` field. Contacts for touch events have unique
            ids, while contacts for mouse events always have the :py:attr:`id`
            :py:const:`-1`. ids are not reused. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: motionangle

            Angle of the current position from the initial position in radians. Like all
            angles in libavg, :py:attr:`motionangle` is 0 on the positive x axis and 
            increases clockwise. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: motionvec

            The difference of the current position and the initial position as a
            :py:class:`Point2D`. Read-only.

        .. py:method:: connectListener(motionCallback, upCallback) -> id

            Registers event handlers that get called when CURSORMOTION and CURSORUP 
            events for this :py:class:`Contact` occur. Event handlers can be unregistered
            using :py:meth:`disconnectListener`. They are automatically unregistered
            after the up event. The :py:attr:`id` returned is unique for this contact.

        .. py:method:: disconnectListener(id)

            Unregisters an event handler. The parameter is the :py:attr:`id` returned in 
            :py:meth:`connectListener`. It is an error to call 
            :py:meth:`disconnectListener` with an invalid id.

    .. autoclass:: CursorEvent

        Base class for all events which contain a position in the global coordinate
        system.
    
        .. py:attribute:: contact

            The :py:class:`Contact` that the event belongs to, if there is one. 
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: cursorid

            An numerical identifier for the current cursor.

        .. py:attribute:: node

            The :py:class:`Node` that the event occured in. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: pos

            Position in the global coordinate system. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: source

            The type of the device that emitted the event. See :py:attr:`Event.source`. 
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: x

            x position in the global coordinate system. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: y

            y position in the global coordinate system. Read-only.


    .. autoclass:: Event(type, source, [when])

        Base class for user input events.

        :param type type:

            The type of the event. See :py:attr:`Event.type`.

        :param source source:

            The source of the event. See :py:attr:`Event.source`.

        :param Integer when:

            The time the event occured

        .. py:attribute:: inputdevice
            
            The address of the device that emitted the event.
            Read-only

        .. py:attribute:: inputdevicename

            The name of the device that emitted the event.
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: source

            One of :py:const:`MOUSE`, :py:const:`TOUCH`, :py:const:`TRACK`,
            :py:const:`CUSTOM` or :py:const:`NONE`. Read-only

        .. py:attribute:: type

            One of :py:const:`KEYUP`, :py:const:`KEYDOWN`, :py:const:`CURSORMOTION`,
            :py:const:`CURSORUP`, :py:const:`CURSORDOWN`, :py:const:`CURSOROVER`, 
            :py:const:`CURSOROUT` or :py:const:`QUIT`. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: when

            The time when the event occured in milliseconds since program start. 
            Read-only.

    .. autoclass:: InputDevice(name, [eventReceiverNode])

        Base class for input devices which feed events to the system. Derived classes can
        be either user-defined or one of the predefined libavg input devices. User-defined
        InputDevice objects are registered with the system by calling 
        :py:meth:`Player.addInputDevice`. After this, the emitted 
        events are processed like any other events.

        :param String name:

            The name of the input device.

        :param DivNode eventReceiverNode:
            
            The root node that the input device will deliver events to. By default, this
            is the libavg root node. Useful for constricting events to a part of the
            total canvas or for sending events directly to an offscreen canvas. Event
            bubbling starts at this node and proceeds down the tree from there.

        .. py:attribute:: eventreceivernode:

            The node the events of this input device will be delivered to. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: name

            The name of the device. Read-only.
        
        .. py:method::  start()

            Initializes the input device if needed. By default this is an empty method.
        
        .. py:method:: pollEvents() -> list

            Abstract method which returns a list of pending events. After registering 
            the input device, this method gets called on every frame.

    .. autoclass:: KeyEvent

        Generated when a key is pressed or released.

        .. py:attribute:: keycode

            The keycode of the key according to US keyboard layout. Read-only. 

        .. py:attribute:: keystring

            A character or word describing the key pressed. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: modifiers

            Any modifier keys (:kbd:`shift`, :kbd:`ctrl`, etc.) pressed. This is a 
            number of KeyModifier values or'ed together. Read-only. 

        .. py:attribute:: scancode

            The untranslated (hardware-dependent) scancode of the key pressed. 
            Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: unicode

            Unicode index of the character. Takes into account the current keyboard
            layout and any modifiers pressed. This attribute is only filled in the
            :py:const:`KEYDOWN` event. Read-only.

    .. autoclass:: MouseEvent(type, leftButtonState, middleButtonState, rightButtonState, pos, button, [speed, when])

        Generated when a mouse-related event occurs.

        :param type:
    
            See :py:attr:`Event.type`

        :param Boolean leftButtonState:
    
            Specifies if the left mouse button is pressed                    

        :param Boolean middleButtonState:

            Specifies if the middle mouse button is pressed

        :param Boolean rightButtonState:

            Specifies if the right mouse button is pressed

        :param Point2D pos:
            
            The position of the event

        :param Integer button:

            The Button that caused the event

        :param Point2D speed:

            The speed of the event

        .. py:attribute:: button

            The button that caused the event. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: cursorid

            Always :samp:`-1` for mouse events, but can be used to handle mouse and 
            tracking events in one handler. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: leftbuttonstate

            :py:const:`True` if the left mouse button is currently pressed. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: middlebuttonstate

            :py:const:`True` if the middle mouse button is currently pressed. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: rightbuttonstate

            :py:const:`True` if the right mouse button is currently pressed. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: source

            Always :py:const:`MOUSE`. Read-only

        .. py:attribute:: speed

            Current speed of the mouse in pixels per millisecond as a
            :py:class:`Point2D`. Read-only.

    .. autoclass:: TouchEvent(id, type, pos, source, [speed])

        Generated when a touch or other tracking event occurs. Touch events happen 
        only when a multi-touch sensitive surface or other camera tracker is 
        active. 

        :param Integer id:
            
            The cursorid of the event

        :param type type:

            See :py:attr:`Event.type`

        :param Point2D pos:

            The position of the event

        :param source source:

            See :py:attr:`Event.source`

        :param Point2D speed:

            The speed of the event


        .. py:attribute:: area

            Size of the blob found in pixels. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: center

            Position as :py:class:`Point2D`, with sub-pixel accuracy. Used for 
            calibration. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: cursorid

            An identifier for the current touch. A single touch will generate a down,
            zero or more motion and a single up event in its lifetime, all with the same
            :py:attr:`cursorid`.

        .. py:attribute:: eccentricity

        .. py:attribute:: handorientation

            The angle of the hand relative to the finger. :py:attr:`handorientation` is
            only defined for events with :py:attr:`source`=:py:const:`TOUCH`. If the 
            tracker has detected a hovering hand attached to the finger, this is the 
            actual hand-finger angle. If no hand was detected, the angle is approximated 
            using the position of the touch on the surface. :py:attr:`handorientation`
            ranges from :py:const:`-pi` to :py:const:`pi`, with 0 being the positive x
            axis. Angles increase in a clockwise fashion.

            For :py:const:`CURSORUP` events, the angle is always approximated.

        .. py:attribute:: majoraxis

            Major axis of an ellipse that is similar to the blob. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: minoraxis

            Minor axis of an ellipse that is similar to the blob. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: orientation

            Angle of the blob in radians. For hovering hands, this is roughly the 
            direction of the hand, modulo 180 degrees. Read-only.

        .. py:attribute:: source

            :py:attr:`source` can be either :py:const:`TRACK` or :py:const:`TOUCH`.
            In most cases, actual touches will generate :py:const:`TOUCH` events. When 
            used with a DI device, the internal tracker also generates :py:const:`TRACK` 
            events for hands above the surface. When used with an FTIR device, the 
            internal tracker generates :py:const:`TRACK` events for the actual touches.
            Read-only

        .. py:attribute:: speed

            Current speed of the touch in pixels per millisecond as a
            :py:class:`Point2D`. Read-only.

        .. py:method:: getContour() -> list

            Returns the contour of the blob as a list of points if supported by the 
            tracker being used.

        .. py:method:: getRelatedEvents() -> events

            Only for DI devices and the internal tracker: Returns a python tuple 
            containing the events 'related' to this one. For :py:const:`TOUCH` events 
            (fingers), the tuple contains one element: the corresponding 
            :py:const:`TRACK` event (hand). For :py:const:`TRACK` events,
            the tuple contains all :py:const:`TOUCH` events that belong to the same hand.

    .. autoclass:: Tracker

        A class that uses a camera to track moving objects and delivers the movements 
        as avg events. Create a tracker by using :py:meth:`Player.addTracker()`.
        The properties of this class are explained under
        https://www.libavg.de/wiki/ProgrammersGuide/Tracker.

        This is the internal libavg tracker. For touch input sources created using 
        :py:meth:`Player.enableMultitouch`, no Tracker object exists.
        
        .. py:method:: abortCalibration()

            Aborts coordinate calibration session and restores the previous
            coordinate transformer.

        .. py:method:: endCalibration()

            Ends coordinate calibration session and activates the coordinate
            transformer generated.

        .. py:method:: getDisplayROIPos()

        .. py:method:: getDisplayROISize()

        .. py:method:: getImage(imageid) -> Bitmap 

            Returns one of the intermediate images necessary for tracking.
            These images are only available if setDebugImages was called before
            with appropriate parameters. Possible :py:attr:`imageid` values are 
            :py:const:`IMG_CAMERA`, :py:const:`IMG_DISTORTED`, :py:const:`IMG_NOHISTORY`,
            :py:const:`IMG_HISTOGRAM`, :py:const:`IMG_FINGERS` or 
            :py:const:`IMG_HIGHPASS`.

        .. py:method:: getParam(element) -> value

            Returns a tracker configuration parameter.

        .. py:method:: resetHistory()

            Throws away the current history image and generates a new one from
            the next second of images.

        .. py:method:: saveConfig()

            Saves the current tracker configuration to the default config file.

        .. py:method:: setDebugImages(img, finger)

            Controls whether debug images of intermediate tracking results
            and detected finger positions are generated and exported to
            python. Generating the debug images takes a moderate amount of
            time, so it is turned off by default.

            :param img: Whether to generate intermediate result images.
            :param finger: Whether to generate the :py:const:IMG_FINGERS: result image.

        .. py:method:: setParam(element, value)

            Sets one of the tracker configuration parameters.

        .. py:method:: startCalibration(displayextents) -> TrackerCalibrator

            Starts coordinate calibration session. The returned 
            :py:class:`TrackerCalibrator` exists until :py:meth:`endCalibration`
            or :py:meth:`abortCalibration` is called.

            :param displayextents: The width and height of the display area.

    .. autoclass:: TrackerCalibrator

        Generates a mapping of display points to camera points using a set of reference
        points. Python code should display reference points that the user must
        touch to establish a mapping. Created by :py:meth:`Tracker.startCalibration`.

        .. py:method:: getDisplayPoint() -> Point2D

        .. py:method:: nextPoint() -> bool

            Advances to the next point. Returns :py:const:`False` and ends calibration if
            all points have been set.

        .. py:method:: setCamPoint(pos)
