sphinxdoc/ui.rst, before:

User Interface Classes
======================

The namespace libavg.ui contains python modules that expose higher-level user interface
functionality

.. automodule:: libavg.ui
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: DragRecognizer TapRecognizer TransformRecognizer
        :parts: 1

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Button TouchButton Keyboard
        :parts: 1

    .. autoclass:: Button(upNode, downNode[, disabledNode=None, activeAreaNode=None, pressHandler=None, clickHandler=None, stateChangeHandler=None])

        A generic button that shows different user-supplied nodes depending on it's
        state. Possible button states are up, down and disabled. The nodes are attached
        as children to the Button on construction. For a simple button, image nodes can 
        be passed. Button behaviour corresponds to standard GUI buttons.

        :param avg.Node upNode: The node displayed when the button is not pressed.

        :param avg.Node downNode: The node displayed when the button is pressed.

        :param avg.Node disabledNode: The node displayed when the button is disabled.

        :param avg.Node activeAreaNode: 
        
            A node that is used only to determine if a click is over the button. Usually,
            this node is invisible. :py:attr:`activeAreaNode` is useful for small touch
            buttons, where the active area should be larger than the visible button to
            accout for touch inaccuracies.

        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: pressHandler(event)

                Called when the button is pressed. This happens on a down event.
                
                :param event: The corresponding cursor down event. 

            .. py:method:: clickHandler(event)

                Called when the button is clicked. A click is generated when an up event
                happens inside the button.

            .. py:method:: stateChangeHandler(state)

                Called whenever the button state changes.

        .. py:method:: delete()

        .. py:method:: getUpNode() -> Node

        .. py:method:: getDownNode() -> Node

        .. py:method:: getDisabledNode() -> Node

        .. py:method:: setEnabled(isEnabled)

        .. py:method:: isEnabled()


    .. autoclass:: DragRecognizer(node, [eventSource=avg.TOUCH | avg.MOUSE, startHandler=None, moveHandler=None, upHandler=None, stopHandler=None, initialEvent=None, friction=-1])

        A :py:class:`DragRecognizer` attaches itself to a node's cursor events and 
        delivers higher-level callbacks that can be used to implement dragging or 
        drag-like functionality.

        :py:class:`DragRecognizer` supports inertia after the node is released.
        
        :param avg.Node node: The node to attach to.

        :param eventSource: 
            
            One of the standard event sources (:py:const:`TRACK`, :py:const:`TOUCH` 
            etc.).

        :param initialEvent:

            A cursordown event to pass to the recognizer immediately.

        :param float friction:

            If set, this parameter enables inertia processing. It describes how 
            quickly the drag comes to a stop after the cursor is released.

        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: startHandler(event)

                Called when a drag begins. 
                
                :param event: The corresponding cursor down event. 

            .. py:method:: moveHandler(event, offset)

                Called when the drag should cause a position change. This usually happens
                in response to a :py:const:`CURSORMOTION` event, but may also happen
                because of inertia.

                :param event: 
                
                    The corresponding cursor motion event. If there was no event, 
                    this parameter is :py:const:`None`.

                :param avg.Point2D offset: 
                
                    The current offset from the start of the drag in global coordinates.

            .. py:method:: upHandler(event, offset)

                Called when the cursor is released. If inertia is enabled, there may be 
                move events after the up event.

                :param event: 
                
                    The corresponding :py:const:`CURSORUP` event.

                :param avg.Point2D offset: 
                
                    The current offset from the start of the drag in global coordinates.

            .. py:method:: stopHandler()

                Called when movement stops. This is either directly after the up event
                or when inertia has run its course.

        .. py:method:: abortInertia()

            Causes inertia processing to end immediately.


    .. autoclass:: Keyboard(bgHref, ovlHref, keyDefs, shiftKeyCode, [altGrKeyCode, stickyShift])

        Implements an onscreen keyboard that turns mouse clicks or touches into key 
        presses. The keyboard is completely configurable. Keyboard graphics are determined
        by the two image files in bgHref and ovlHref. Keys can be defined as rectangles 
        anywhere on these images. Works for both single-touch and multitouch devices. 
        When a key is pressed, a callback function is invoked.

        Needs offscreen rendering support on the machine.

        :param string bgHref: 
        
            Filename of an image that contains the keyboard with unpressed keys.

        :param string ovlHref:
        
            Filename of an image that contains the keyboard with pressed keys.

        :param list keyDefs:

            List of key definitions. Keys can be either character keys::

                [(<keycode>, <shift keycode>, <altgr keycode>), <pos>, <size>]

            or command keys::

                [<keycode>, <pos>, <size>]

            For character keys, the shift and altgr keycodes are optional. To define
            entire rows of evenly-spaced keys, use :py:meth:`makeRowKeyDefs`.

        :param shiftKeyCode:

            One of the command keycodes. When the key with this code is pressed,
            pressing other keys causes them to return the shifted keycode.

        :param altGrKeyCode:

            One of the command keycodes. When the key with this code is pressed,
            pressing other keys causes them to return the altgr keycode.

        :param bool stickyShift:

            For single-touch devices, the shift key must stay in the pressed state
            until the next normal key is pressed to have any effect. This is the 
            behaviour if :py:attr:`stickyShift` is :py:const:`True`. If it is 
            :py:const:`False` (the default), a 
            multitouch device is assumed and shift works like on a physical keyboard.

        .. py:method:: reset()

            Resets any sticky keys (shift, altgr) to their default state.

        .. py:method:: setKeyHandler(self, downHandler, [upHandler])

            Set callbacks to invoke on key press and -release. Handlers take three 
            paramters: (event, char, cmd)

            :param downHandler: Callable to invoke on key down event or `None`.
            :param upHandler: Callable to invoke on key up event or :py:const:`None`.

        .. py:classmethod:: makeRowKeyDefs(startPos, keySize, spacing, keyStr, shiftKeyStr, [altGrKeyStr])

            Creates key definitions for a row of uniform keys. Useful for creating the 
            keyDefs parameter of the Keyboard constructor.

            :param avg.Point2D startPos: Top left position of the row.

            :param avg.Point2D keySize: Size of each key.

            :param int spacing: Number of empty pixels between two keys.

            :param string keyStr: 
            
                Unicode string containing the unshifted keycodes (i.e. 
                :samp:`u"qwertzuiopżś"`)

            :param string shiftKeyStr: 
            
                Unicode string containing the shifted keycodes
                (i.e. :samp:`u"QWERTZUIOPńć"`)

            :param string altGrKeyStr: 
            
                Unicode string containing the keycodes when altgr is pressed.
    
    
    .. autoclass:: Mat3x3([row0=(1,0,0), row1=(0,1,0), row2=(0,0,1)])

        Matrix class for homogenous 2d transforms. This is a temporary class needed by
        :py:class:`TransformRecognizer`. It will be removed again as soon as a generic 
        matrix class is available.

        .. py:method:: applyMat(m) -> Mat3x3

            Applies the matrix to another matrix and returns the result.

        .. py:method:: applyVec(v) -> Vec3

            Applies the matrix to a 3-component vector and returns the result.

        .. py:method:: det() -> float

            Returns the determinant of the matrix.

        .. py:method:: inverse() -> Mat3x3

            Returns the inverse of the matrix.

        .. py:method:: scalarMult(s) -> Mat3x3

            Returns the matrix multiplied by a scalar.

        .. py:method:: setNodeTransform(node)

            Sets a node's :py:attr:`pos`, :py:attr:`angle` and :py:attr:`size` 
            attributes to correspond to the matrix. Assumes :samp:`pivot=0`.

        .. py:classmethod:: fromNode(node) -> Mat3x3

            Returns the transform matrix of a node computed from its :py:attr:`pos`,
            :py:attr:`angle` and :py:attr:`size` attributes. Assumes :samp:`pivot=0`.

        .. py:classmethod:: rotate(a) -> Mat3x3

            Factory method that creates a rotation matrix from an angle.

        .. py:classmethod:: scale(s) -> Mat3x3

            Factory method that creates a nonuniform scale matrix from a 2-component 
            vector.

        .. py:classmethod:: translate(t) -> Mat3x3

            Factory method that creates a translation matrix from a translation vector.


    .. autoclass:: Recognizer(node, eventSource, maxContacts, initialEvent)

        Base class for gesture recognizers that attach to a node's cursor events and 
        emit higher-level events.

        :param Node node: Node to attach to.

        :param eventSource: 
        
            One of the standard event sources (:py:const:`TRACK`, :py:const:`TOUCH` 
            etc.).

        :param maxContacts:

            The maximum number of contacts that the recognizer should handle. 
            :py:const:`None` if there is no maximum.

        :param initialEvent:

            A cursordown event to pass to the recognizer immediately.

        .. py:method:: enable(isEnabled)

            Enables or disables the :py:class:`Recognizer`.


    .. autoclass:: TapRecognizer(node, [eventSource=avg.TOUCH | avg.MOUSE, startHandler=None, tapHandler=None, failHandler=None, initialEvent=None])

        A :py:class:`TapRecognizer` attaches to a node's cursor events and sends 
        higher-level events when a tap (a short touch without a large change of the 
        cursor position) occurs at this position.

        :param avg.Node node: The node to attach to.

        :param eventSource: 
            
            One of the standard event sources (:py:const:`TRACK`, :py:const:`TOUCH` 
            etc.).

        :param initialEvent:

            A cursordown event to pass to the recognizer immediately.
        
        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: startHandler()

                Called when a possible tap begins. 
                
            .. py:method:: tapHandler()

                Called when a tap is recognized.

            .. py:method:: failHandler(event)

                Called if the touch moves too far from the initial position to be a tap.


    .. autoclass:: TouchButton(upNode, downNode, disabledNode=None, activeAreaNode=None, fatFingerEnlarge=False, clickHandler=None])

        A button made specifically for touch input. Uses the :py:class:`TapRecognizer` to
        detect clicks.

        :param avg.Node upNode: The node displayed when the button is not pressed.

        :param avg.Node downNode: The node displayed when the button is pressed.

        :param avg.Node disabledNode: The node displayed when the button is disabled.

        :param avg.Node activeAreaNode: 
        
            A node that is used only to determine if a click is over the button. Usually,
            this node is invisible. :py:attr:`activeAreaNode` is useful for small touch
            buttons, where the active area should be larger than the visible button to
            accout for touch inaccuracies.

        :param bool fatFingerEnlarge:

            If this parameter is set to :py:const:`True`, the button generates it's own 
            internal :py:attr:`activeAreaNode` that is at least 20x20mm large. 
            :py:attr:`fatFingerEnlarge` is incompatible with a custom 
            :py:attr:`activeAreaNode`.

        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: clickHandler(event)

                Called when the button is clicked.

        .. py:attribute:: enabled

            :py:const:`True` if the button accepts input. If the button is disabled,
            it shows the :py:attr:`disabledNode`.

        .. py:classmethod:: fromSrc(upSrc, downSrc[, disabledSrc=None]) -> Button

            Factory method that creates a button from filenames of the images to be
            displayed for different states.


    .. autoclass:: TransformRecognizer(node, [eventSource=avg.TOUCH | avg.MOUSE, startHandler=None, moveHandler=None, upHandler=None, stopHandler=None, initialEvent=None, friction=-1])

        A :py:class:`TransformRecognizer` is used to support drag/zoom/rotate 
        functionality. From any number of touches on a node, it calculates an aggregate
        transform that can be used to change the position, size and angle of a node. A
        usage example can be found under :samp:`src/samples/mttransform.py`.

        :param avg.Node node: The node to attach to.

        :param eventSource: 
            
            One of the standard event sources (:py:const:`TRACK`, :py:const:`TOUCH` 
            etc.).

        :param initialEvent:

            A cursordown event to pass to the recognizer immediately.
       
        :param friction:

            Currently not implemented.

        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: startHandler()

                Called when a transform begins. 
                
            .. py:method:: moveHandler(transform)

                Called whenever the transform changes.

                :param Mat3x3 transform:
                
                    The current transformation as a homogenous matrix.

            .. py:method:: upHandler(transform)

                Called when the last touch is released.

                :param Mat3x3 transform:
                
                    The current transformation as a homogenous matrix.

            .. py:method:: stopHandler(transform)

                Not implemented.

Commit message:

Updated Recognizer documentation.
git-svn-id: https://www.libavg.de/svn/trunk/libavg@6524 44470bb9-56e9-0310-a0f8-c586564d3dc6

sphinxdoc/ui.rst, after:

User Interface Classes
======================

The namespace libavg.ui contains python modules that expose higher-level user interface
functionality

.. automodule:: libavg.ui
    :no-members:

    .. inheritance-diagram:: DragRecognizer TapRecognizer TransformRecognizer
        :parts: 1

    .. inheritance-diagram:: Button TouchButton Keyboard
        :parts: 1

    .. autoclass:: Button(upNode, downNode[, disabledNode=None, activeAreaNode=None, pressHandler=None, clickHandler=None, stateChangeHandler=None])

        A generic button that shows different user-supplied nodes depending on it's
        state. Possible button states are up, down and disabled. The nodes are attached
        as children to the Button on construction. For a simple button, image nodes can 
        be passed. Button behaviour corresponds to standard GUI buttons.

        :param avg.Node upNode: The node displayed when the button is not pressed.

        :param avg.Node downNode: The node displayed when the button is pressed.

        :param avg.Node disabledNode: The node displayed when the button is disabled.

        :param avg.Node activeAreaNode: 
        
            A node that is used only to determine if a click is over the button. Usually,
            this node is invisible. :py:attr:`activeAreaNode` is useful for small touch
            buttons, where the active area should be larger than the visible button to
            accout for touch inaccuracies.

        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: pressHandler(event)

                Called when the button is pressed. This happens on a down event.
                
                :param event: The corresponding cursor down event. 

            .. py:method:: clickHandler(event)

                Called when the button is clicked. A click is generated when an up event
                happens inside the button.

            .. py:method:: stateChangeHandler(state)

                Called whenever the button state changes.

        .. py:method:: delete()

        .. py:method:: getUpNode() -> Node

        .. py:method:: getDownNode() -> Node

        .. py:method:: getDisabledNode() -> Node

        .. py:method:: setEnabled(isEnabled)

        .. py:method:: isEnabled()


    .. autoclass:: DragRecognizer(node, [eventSource=avg.TOUCH | avg.MOUSE, startHandler=None, moveHandler=None, upHandler=None, stopHandler=None, initialEvent=None, friction=-1])

        A :py:class:`DragRecognizer` attaches itself to a node's cursor events and 
        delivers higher-level callbacks that can be used to implement dragging or 
        drag-like functionality.

        :py:class:`DragRecognizer` supports inertia after the node is released.
        
        :param avg.Node node: 
        
            The node to attach to. The :py:class:`DragRecognizer` registers an event 
            handler to react to any contacts for this node. The node is also used to 
            determine the coordinate system for the offsets returned by the callbacks.
            The :py:class:`DragRecognizer` does not move the node itself.

        :param eventSource: 
            
            One of the standard event sources (:py:const:`TRACK`, :py:const:`TOUCH` 
            etc.).

        :param initialEvent:

            A cursordown event to pass to the recognizer immediately.

        :param float friction:

            If set, this parameter enables inertia processing. It describes how 
            quickly the drag comes to a stop after the cursor is released.

        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: startHandler(event)

                Called when a drag begins. 
                
                :param event: The corresponding cursor down event. 

            .. py:method:: moveHandler(event, offset)

                Called when the drag should cause a position change. This usually happens
                in response to a :py:const:`CURSORMOTION` event, but may also happen
                because of inertia.

                :param event: 
                
                    The corresponding cursor motion event. If there was no event, 
                    this parameter is :py:const:`None`.

                :param avg.Point2D offset: 
                
                    The current offset from the start of the drag in coordinates relative
                    to the :py:class:`Node`'s parent.

            .. py:method:: upHandler(event, offset)

                Called when the cursor is released. If inertia is enabled, there may be 
                move events after the up event.

                :param event: 
                
                    The corresponding :py:const:`CURSORUP` event.

                :param avg.Point2D offset: 
                
                    The current offset from the start of the drag in coordinates relative
                    to the :py:class:`Node`'s parent.

            .. py:method:: stopHandler()

                Called when movement stops. This is either directly after the up event
                or when inertia has run its course.

        .. py:method:: abortInertia()

            Causes inertia processing to end immediately.


    .. autoclass:: Keyboard(bgHref, ovlHref, keyDefs, shiftKeyCode, [altGrKeyCode, stickyShift])

        Implements an onscreen keyboard that turns mouse clicks or touches into key 
        presses. The keyboard is completely configurable. Keyboard graphics are determined
        by the two image files in bgHref and ovlHref. Keys can be defined as rectangles 
        anywhere on these images. Works for both single-touch and multitouch devices. 
        When a key is pressed, a callback function is invoked.

        Needs offscreen rendering support on the machine.

        :param string bgHref: 
        
            Filename of an image that contains the keyboard with unpressed keys.

        :param string ovlHref:
        
            Filename of an image that contains the keyboard with pressed keys.

        :param list keyDefs:

            List of key definitions. Keys can be either character keys::

                [(<keycode>, <shift keycode>, <altgr keycode>), <pos>, <size>]

            or command keys::

                [<keycode>, <pos>, <size>]

            For character keys, the shift and altgr keycodes are optional. To define
            entire rows of evenly-spaced keys, use :py:meth:`makeRowKeyDefs`.

        :param shiftKeyCode:

            One of the command keycodes. When the key with this code is pressed,
            pressing other keys causes them to return the shifted keycode.

        :param altGrKeyCode:

            One of the command keycodes. When the key with this code is pressed,
            pressing other keys causes them to return the altgr keycode.

        :param bool stickyShift:

            For single-touch devices, the shift key must stay in the pressed state
            until the next normal key is pressed to have any effect. This is the 
            behaviour if :py:attr:`stickyShift` is :py:const:`True`. If it is 
            :py:const:`False` (the default), a 
            multitouch device is assumed and shift works like on a physical keyboard.

        .. py:method:: reset()

            Resets any sticky keys (shift, altgr) to their default state.

        .. py:method:: setKeyHandler(self, downHandler, [upHandler])

            Set callbacks to invoke on key press and -release. Handlers take three 
            paramters: (event, char, cmd)

            :param downHandler: Callable to invoke on key down event or `None`.
            :param upHandler: Callable to invoke on key up event or :py:const:`None`.

        .. py:classmethod:: makeRowKeyDefs(startPos, keySize, spacing, keyStr, shiftKeyStr, [altGrKeyStr])

            Creates key definitions for a row of uniform keys. Useful for creating the 
            keyDefs parameter of the Keyboard constructor.

            :param avg.Point2D startPos: Top left position of the row.

            :param avg.Point2D keySize: Size of each key.

            :param int spacing: Number of empty pixels between two keys.

            :param string keyStr: 
            
                Unicode string containing the unshifted keycodes (i.e. 
                :samp:`u"qwertzuiopżś"`)

            :param string shiftKeyStr: 
            
                Unicode string containing the shifted keycodes
                (i.e. :samp:`u"QWERTZUIOPńć"`)

            :param string altGrKeyStr: 
            
                Unicode string containing the keycodes when altgr is pressed.
    
    
    .. autoclass:: Mat3x3([row0=(1,0,0), row1=(0,1,0), row2=(0,0,1)])

        Matrix class for homogenous 2d transforms. This is a temporary class needed by
        :py:class:`TransformRecognizer`. It will be removed again as soon as a generic 
        matrix class is available.

        .. py:method:: applyMat(m) -> Mat3x3

            Applies the matrix to another matrix and returns the result.

        .. py:method:: applyVec(v) -> Vec3

            Applies the matrix to a 3-component vector and returns the result.

        .. py:method:: det() -> float

            Returns the determinant of the matrix.

        .. py:method:: inverse() -> Mat3x3

            Returns the inverse of the matrix.

        .. py:method:: scalarMult(s) -> Mat3x3

            Returns the matrix multiplied by a scalar.

        .. py:method:: setNodeTransform(node)

            Sets a node's :py:attr:`pos`, :py:attr:`angle` and :py:attr:`size` 
            attributes to correspond to the matrix. Assumes :samp:`pivot=0`.

        .. py:classmethod:: fromNode(node) -> Mat3x3

            Returns the transform matrix of a node computed from its :py:attr:`pos`,
            :py:attr:`angle` and :py:attr:`size` attributes. Assumes :samp:`pivot=0`.

        .. py:classmethod:: rotate(a) -> Mat3x3

            Factory method that creates a rotation matrix from an angle.

        .. py:classmethod:: scale(s) -> Mat3x3

            Factory method that creates a nonuniform scale matrix from a 2-component 
            vector.

        .. py:classmethod:: translate(t) -> Mat3x3

            Factory method that creates a translation matrix from a translation vector.


    .. autoclass:: Recognizer(node, eventSource, maxContacts, initialEvent)

        Base class for gesture recognizers that attach to a node's cursor events and 
        emit higher-level events. A usage example for the recognizers can be found under
        :samp:`src/samples/gestures.py`.

        :param Node node: Node to attach to.

        :param eventSource: 
        
            One of the standard event sources (:py:const:`TRACK`, :py:const:`TOUCH` 
            etc.).

        :param maxContacts:

            The maximum number of contacts that the recognizer should handle. 
            :py:const:`None` if there is no maximum.

        :param initialEvent:

            A cursordown event to pass to the recognizer immediately.

        .. py:method:: enable(isEnabled)

            Enables or disables the :py:class:`Recognizer`.


    .. autoclass:: TapRecognizer(node, [eventSource=avg.TOUCH | avg.MOUSE, startHandler=None, tapHandler=None, failHandler=None, initialEvent=None])

        A :py:class:`TapRecognizer` attaches to a node's cursor events and sends 
        higher-level events when a tap (a short touch without a large change of the 
        cursor position) occurs at this position.

        :param avg.Node node: The node to attach to.

        :param eventSource: 
            
            One of the standard event sources (:py:const:`TRACK`, :py:const:`TOUCH` 
            etc.).

        :param initialEvent:

            A cursordown event to pass to the recognizer immediately.
        
        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: startHandler()

                Called when a possible tap begins. 
                
            .. py:method:: tapHandler()

                Called when a tap is recognized.

            .. py:method:: failHandler(event)

                Called if the touch moves too far from the initial position to be a tap.


    .. autoclass:: TouchButton(upNode, downNode, disabledNode=None, activeAreaNode=None, fatFingerEnlarge=False, clickHandler=None])

        A button made specifically for touch input. Uses the :py:class:`TapRecognizer` to
        detect clicks.

        :param avg.Node upNode: The node displayed when the button is not pressed.

        :param avg.Node downNode: The node displayed when the button is pressed.

        :param avg.Node disabledNode: The node displayed when the button is disabled.

        :param avg.Node activeAreaNode: 
        
            A node that is used only to determine if a click is over the button. Usually,
            this node is invisible. :py:attr:`activeAreaNode` is useful for small touch
            buttons, where the active area should be larger than the visible button to
            accout for touch inaccuracies.

        :param bool fatFingerEnlarge:

            If this parameter is set to :py:const:`True`, the button generates it's own 
            internal :py:attr:`activeAreaNode` that is at least 20x20mm large. 
            :py:attr:`fatFingerEnlarge` is incompatible with a custom 
            :py:attr:`activeAreaNode`.

        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: clickHandler(event)

                Called when the button is clicked.

        .. py:attribute:: enabled

            :py:const:`True` if the button accepts input. If the button is disabled,
            it shows the :py:attr:`disabledNode`.

        .. py:classmethod:: fromSrc(upSrc, downSrc[, disabledSrc=None]) -> Button

            Factory method that creates a button from filenames of the images to be
            displayed for different states.


    .. autoclass:: TransformRecognizer(node, [eventSource=avg.TOUCH | avg.MOUSE, startHandler=None, moveHandler=None, upHandler=None, stopHandler=None, initialEvent=None, friction=-1])

        A :py:class:`TransformRecognizer` is used to support drag/zoom/rotate 
        functionality. From any number of touches on a node, it calculates an aggregate
        transform that can be used to change the position, size and angle of a node.
        The class supports intertia after the node is released.

        :param avg.Node node: The node to attach to. The :py:class:`TransformRecognizer`
            registers an event handler to react to any contacts for this node. The node
            is also used to determine the coordinate system for the offsets returned by
            the callbacks. The :py:class:`TransformRecognizer` does not move the node 
            itself.

        :param eventSource: 
            
            One of the standard event sources (:py:const:`TRACK`, :py:const:`TOUCH` 
            etc.).

        :param initialEvent:

            A cursordown event to pass to the recognizer immediately.
       
        :param friction:

            If set, this parameter enables inertia processing. It describes how 
            quickly the transform comes to a stop after the cursor is released.

        Callbacks:

            .. py:method:: startHandler()

                Called when a transform begins. 
                
            .. py:method:: moveHandler(transform)

                Called whenever the transform changes.

                :param Mat3x3 transform:
                
                    The current transformation as a homogenous matrix. The transform is 
                    relative to the :py:class:`Node`'s parent.


            .. py:method:: upHandler(transform)

                Called when the last touch is released.

                :param Mat3x3 transform:
                
                    The current transformation as a homogenous matrix. The transform is 
                    relative to the :py:class:`Node`'s parent.

            .. py:method:: stopHandler(transform)

                Called when movement stops. This is either directly after the up event
                or when inertia has run its course.
